Move SASS diff description to a SKILL (#9767)
NVIDIA/cccl: .agent/skills/sass-diff/SKILL.md

---
name: sass-diff
description: Use when asked to check for SASS (or PTX) changes between commits, branches, or a local changeset; guides normalization, comparison, and reporting of CUDA disassembly diffs.
---

# SASS Diffs

Use this when asked to check for SASS changes between commits, branches or a local changeset.

## Goal

Detect relevant changes in generated CUDA machine code (i.e. SASS) while filtering noise from addresses, symbols, metadata, etc.
Any non-trivial change must be detected.

## Inputs to establish

* Compilation target under test
* The CUDA SM architectures to compile for. Try to detect this from the code and offer the user a list of suggestions.

>   The user must confirm or provide this list.

Reviewer: I would note that the bot should also check the `compile_commands.json` to get a definitive answer for this. The architectures will be listed explicitly in the compiler flags.

Author: No it shouldn't. `compile_commands.json` is what the user compiles for but not necessarily what SM architectures you want to SASS diff. For example, I develop with only `SM120` in `CMAKE_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES`, but every time I SASS-diff I lookup in the tuning headers what SM arches could be impacted by the change and then ask to diff for those.

Author: I think I understand now, reworded a bit.

> * The CUDA SM architectures to compile for. Try to detect this from the code and offer the user a list of suggestions.
>   The user must confirm or provide this list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The CUDA SM architectures to compile for. Try to detect this from the code and offer the user a list of suggestions.
  The user must confirm or provide this list.
* Prefer `compile_commands.json` when available to recover the actual `nvcc` flags and `--generate-code` / `-arch` settings.
```

* Baseline disassembly (from the previous commit/branch or the current commit without the changes in the working copy).
* Comparison disassembly (from the current commit/branch or the current commit with the changes in the working copy).
* By default, prefer `cuobjdump -sass` to inspect SASS changes.
  Use `cuobjdump -ptx` if the request is to check for PTX changes instead.

## Normalization rules (strip known noise)

Apply these transforms to both baseline and candidate listings before diffing.
Write the normalized listings to separate files.

* Remove addresses/offsets/hex location prefixes.
* Remove build IDs, timestamps, absolute paths, temp directories, and compiler banners.
* Normalize whitespace and alignment to single spaces.

> * Remove empty lines and purely comment lines.

Reviewer: IME these skills work much better if the agent has a set of scripts they can run that do these highly deterministic things for them. You should ask the bot to generate such a script for you and check it in with the skill.

Reviewer 3: +1. Otherwise, the agent needs to write the script every time

## Comparison rules (what matters)

Ignore as trivial:

* Register renaming with identical instruction sequence and operands.
* Pure label renumbering or reordering of identical basic blocks.

> * Formatting-only differences or reordered symbol tables.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a checked-in normalization script so agents do not rewrite this logic each time?

I use something like [this](https://gist.github.com/sleeepyjack/575185be2407349952076b4cdf52a50d) (also agent-generated but it works for me so far).

## Reporting

* If any non-trivial change was detected, the top 5 regions where a non-trivial change was detected,
  including the name of the kernel they appeared in.

> * A short summary of the diff type (opcode change, memory access size change, size delta, control-flow, etc.).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A short summary of the diff type, including opcode changes, memory access size/cache policy changes, control-flow changes, register-count changes, spills/local memory, shared memory, and occupancy-relevant resource deltas.
```
